feat(using-components-2): framework and typescript demos + slides (#34)
maxpatiiuk/esri-dev-summit-presentations: 2025/using-components-2/slides.md

---

# Frameworks

- Frameworks make app development easier by providing more structure and declarative rendering
- React is most popular, but Angular and Vue also support web components
- Web components work in most major frameworks

---

# React ⚛️

- Most popular framework / library
- Top down data flow
- Declarative rendering and events (JSX)
- Encourages building app from "components" - reusable building blocks
- React19 has support for web components out of the box

--- 
layout: center
---

# Demo: [Get started with React](https://github.com/maxpatiiuk/esri-dev-summit-presentations/tree/main/2025/using-components-2/demo/2-react)

<!--
  - show differences to file extension
  - show how JSX is used, such as event handlers and props
  - highlight how we no longer have to use query selector
  - highlight the event listening logic
-->

---

# Summary of benefits from react

- Declarative rendering
- Easy to pass properties to components
- Easier event logic
- No need for query selectors
- Easy to consume web components

---

# TypeScript

- Typescript is a superset of JavaScript
- Adds static types to JavaScript
- Improves developer experience and code quality

> - ArcGIS Web Components comes with TypeScript definitions out of the box

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Map SDK's components and Calcite come with TypeScript definitions out of the box
```

    return;
  }
  const profiles = event.target.profiles;
  const statistics = profiles.at(0)?.statistics;
  const elevationGain = round(statistics?.elevationGain);
  const distance = round(statistics?.maxDistance);
  setElevation(`${elevationGain} ${event.target.effectiveUnits.elevation}`);
  setDistance(`${distance} ${event.target.effectiveUnits.distance}`);
}

return (
  <calcite-chip id="distance">{distance}</calcite-chip>
  <calcite-chip id="elevation">{elevation}</calcite-chip>
  <arcgis-elevation-profile
    onarcgisPropertyChange={handleElevationProfileChange}
  ></arcgis-elevation-profile>
);

```

</template>

<!--
React combines logic and markup into the same file.

This makes it easier to understand the component's behavior and how it interacts with the rest of the application.

React also provides a way to manage state and lifecycle events in a more predictable way.

Declarative rendering makes it easier to understand what the component will look like based on its state.

-->

---

# TypeScript

- Typescript is a superset of JavaScript
- Adds static types to JavaScript
- Improves developer experience and code quality

> - The Map SDK's components and Calcite come with TypeScript definitions out of the box

Reviewer 2: Maps SDK instead?
